Welcome back.
In this video we're going to introduce spies before we talk about what spies are.
We need to introduce a concept in testing called the mocking when unit testing.
We strive to isolate specific functionality and how this functionality behaves under a variety of circumstances.
Unfortunately many functions or objects may depend on other parts of our application.
These can include other functions and data sources and even previously executed functions.
This is where mocking comes in to help.
A mark is a fixed object that poses as a function without having to go through the overhead of creating
the real object.
When you create a mock object it creates a fake object that takes the place of the real object.
We can then define what methods are called and their return values from within our mock object.
Marks can be used to retrieve certain values like how many times the Mach function was called what value
the function returned and how many parameters the function was called with in jazzmen marks are referred
to as spies.
ASPI can stub or mimic any functionality and track calls to the function and all of its arguments.
It's important to note that spies only exist in the describe or it block in which they are defined and
are removed after each spec.
So let's see how to create a spy.
There are two ways to create a spy and jazzmen the spy on function and the Jasminum creates by function.
Spy on can only be used when the method exists on an object whereas jazzman creates by will return a
brand new function.
When you were spying on an existing function make sure to use by on.
In the case below we have an existing function called ADD but on what object is it attached.
Remember the variables in the global scope are attached to the window object.
So let's see what this looks like here will spy on the add function and test to see if our spy has been
called.
Notice here that we don't care about any kind of return value.
We just want to make sure that our function is called.
So if our function had to go through an expensive process like connecting to a database we wouldn't
have to worry that any of that now we're just faking the behavior of this function.
Or what about some parameters to our function.
Maybe we want to test different parameters or the type of certain parameters to do that.
We can use that to have been called with matter.
Here is what that would look like.
Now let's see if our spy actually returns the correct value to do that.
We can use the N dot call through function to make sure that we store the return value instead of just
undefined when we invoke this function.
We will see that our return value is 6.
And this test should pass.
You might be wondering why would I bother to use a spy to test a return value instead of the actual
function.
It's possible that the original function takes a while to run or depends on other objects that we cannot
access with unit testing.
We want to test small units of our code so we should not be invoking lots of functions that depend on
other ones.
We should strive to use dummy data whenever possible to speed up our tests.
Finally we can test the frequency or how many times a function is called.
This is useful if you want to make sure a function is only called a certain amount of times.
Or maybe you want the function to only be invoked once to test this.
We can use the calls object on the spy to access the count or see if the function has been called at
all.
Speiser are a bit strange to wrap your head around.
But remember all we are trying to do here is mock the behavior of a function Speiser useful when we
want to see how many times a function is called.
What arguments.
A function is called with and what the function returns.
Spies often save us quite a bit of trouble when working with large code bases and help reduce the time
it takes to run our tests.
Get some practice with spies in the next section and I'll see you in the next video.
Good luck.